# Why one should learn C++ ?

1. It is widely used even today due to its large applications, as well as lots and lots of legacy code is also written on C++ already, so it is an integral part of many crucial systems we see today.
2. C++ follows Object Oriented Paradigm, lots of new languages are Object Oriented and it it provides lots of features in Object Oriented which are not available in newer languages and syntactically it is much better, even if that means you have to learn a lots of things due to sometimes exhaustive syntax. Which plays a crucial role in giving programmers more power and freedom over writing code in the way they want.
3. C++ is compatible with hardware due to it's nature of being a low level language which is easier for computers to understand. Proving to be a great choice for making Apps which run directly over the OS. So here is a layer of Hardware >> OS >> Application.
4. Looking at applications such as DotNet, C#, Java or Python, these languages do not run directly over the OS but instead they need an interpreter that is a run time environment like java runs inside JVM and .NET programs run inside Common Language Run-time environment CLR.
   So, interpreter is used to establish interaction between OS and Hardware which makes it as follows (Hardware >> OS >> Environment >> App) due to this intermediate interference of environment layer these languages aren't that powerful compared to C++ which directly interacts with OS or hardware.
5. C++ is still pretty much the most used language when you need to write fast code that performs well or if you're writing for a weird architecture or a platform and you need the code to run natively, if you want direct control over Hardware C++ is for you.

## List of applications of C++

1. System Softwares/Tools
2. Embedded Systems (Microprocessors & Controllers viz. Arduino,Rasp)
3. Operating Systems, Interpreters
4. Platforms and Engines
5. Games & Graphics

## Contents : Outline

1. Introduction
2. C++ Basics
3. Conditional Statements
4. Loops
5. Functions
6. Object-Oriented Programming
7. Operator Overloading
8. Templates
9. I/O Streams
10. STL
11. Features of C++
